README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/173698585?s=100&v=4" alt="PRIMA" width="100">
</p>

# PRIMA Platform

## Overview

**PRIMA** (Platform for Restaurant Intermediation and Management Application) is a comprehensive restaurant reservation ecosystem that transforms how venues monetize their inventory while creating sustainable income streams for concierges. Unlike traditional booking platforms, PRIMA addresses three critical business challenges: revenue loss from third-party reservation trading, operational inefficiency from manual booking processes, and untapped revenue during non-prime hours.

The platform creates multiple revenue streams through prime-time reservation sales, automated small-party bookings, location-based QR discovery, and relationship-driven repeat business - generating sustainable income for all stakeholders while reducing operational overhead. By facilitating prime-time reservation sales through a trusted concierge network and optimizing non-prime bookings, PRIMA creates a win-win-win situation for restaurants, concierges, and diners.

## Table of Contents

- [PRIMA Platform](#prima-platform)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Problem Statement](#problem-statement)
  - [Our Solution](#our-solution)
  - [Key Features](#key-features)
  - [How It Works](#how-it-works)
  - [Benefits](#benefits)
  - [Technology Stack](#technology-stack)
  - [Architecture](#architecture)
    - [Action Pattern and Code Reuse](#action-pattern-and-code-reuse)
  - [Core Components](#core-components)
  - [Venue Management](#venue-management)
    - [Key Features of Venue Management](#key-features-of-venue-management)
  - [Referral System](#referral-system)
    - [Partner Referrals](#partner-referrals)
    - [Concierge Referrals](#concierge-referrals)
    - [Referral Calculation Process](#referral-calculation-process)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation Steps](#installation-steps)
  - [Additional Setup](#additional-setup)
- [Development & Testing Commands](#development--testing-commands)
  - [Risk Scoring Testing](#risk-scoring-testing)
  - [VIP Session & Token Commands](#vip-session--token-commands)

## Problem Statement

The restaurant industry faces significant revenue loss due to:

- Third-party reservation trading
- No-shows for prime-time reservations
- Underutilized capacity during non-prime hours

## Our Solution

PRIMA revolutionizes restaurant reservation management by:

- Allowing in-demand restaurants to monetize prime-time reservations
- Increasing bookings for non-prime reservations
- Providing a trusted network of concierges to manage and fulfill reservations

## Key Features

### **Automated Revenue Optimization**
- **Smart Auto-Approval**: Small bookings (≤7 guests) automatically approve when restaurants have platform integration
- **Business Impact**: Eliminates manual processing costs, reduces booking abandonment, and captures time-sensitive reservations

### **Restaurant System Integration**
- **Platform Connections**: Direct integration with restaurant management systems (CoverManager, Restoo)
- **Smart Availability Sync**: Automated prime/non-prime management based on real-time restaurant availability
- **Business Impact**: Eliminates double-entry, reduces errors, provides real-time inventory, and streamlines operations

### **Location-Based Discovery Network**
- **QR Concierge Program**: QR codes placed at hotels and high-traffic locations enable instant booking access
- **Business Impact**: Creates new customer acquisition channels, generates passive income for property partners

### **Relationship-Driven Business Model**
- **Customer Attribution**: System maintains customer-concierge relationships across all future bookings
- **Business Impact**: Builds customer loyalty, increases lifetime value, creates predictable income streams

### **Comprehensive Revenue Management**
- Dual booking system for prime and non-prime reservations
- Sophisticated earnings calculation and distribution system
- Multi-stakeholder revenue sharing (venues, concierges, partners)
- Real-time analytics and reporting

## How It Works

1. **Reservation Booking**:
    - Concierges book reservations through the PRIMA hub
    - Prime-time slots are available for a fee
    - Non-prime slots are offered free of charge

2. **Restaurant Notification**:
    - Restaurants receive instant notifications for new bookings
    - Reservations can be automatically added to the restaurant's management system

3. **Analytics and Tracking**:
    - Live analytics provided for both restaurants and concierges
    - Track reservations, earnings, and other key metrics in real-time

## Benefits

- **For Restaurants**:
  - Maximize revenue from prime-time slots
  - Increase bookings during non-prime hours
  - Reduce no-shows and last-minute cancellations

- **For Concierges**:
  - Earn extra income by facilitating reservations
  - Access to exclusive prime-time slots at popular restaurants

- **For Diners**:
  - Enjoy favorite restaurants at preferred times
  - Reliable reservation system through trusted concierges

## Technology Stack

- **PHP 8.3+** - Modern PHP with performance optimizations
- **Laravel 11** - Full-stack web application framework
- **Filament 3** - Admin panel and form builder
- **Livewire 3** - Real-time UI components
- **Laravel Sanctum** - API authentication for mobile apps
- **Laravel Actions** (lorisleiva/laravel-actions) - Business logic encapsulation
- **Spatie Packages** - Permissions, activity logging, data objects
- **TailwindCSS 3** - Utility-first CSS framework
- **PostgreSQL 17** - Primary database with advanced features
- **Redis** - Caching and session storage
- **Queue Workers** - Background job processing

## Architecture

PRIMA follows a modern, modular architecture leveraging Laravel's robust features and additional packages to ensure clean, maintainable, and reusable code:

- **MVC Pattern**: Laravel's Model-View-Controller architecture for clear separation of concerns
- **Multi-Platform Integration Layer**: Unified interface for different restaurant management systems
- **Action Pattern**: Laravel Actions package for encapsulating business logic into versatile, reusable classes
- **Event-Driven Architecture**: Laravel's event system for booking lifecycle and earnings calculations
- **API-First Design**: RESTful APIs supporting mobile applications and third-party integrations
- **Queue-Based Processing**: Background jobs for SMS, notifications, and platform synchronization
- **Multi-Currency Support**: Built-in currency conversion and regional pricing
- **Admin Panel**: Filament 3 for powerful, customizable administrative interface

### Action Pattern and Code Reuse

PRIMA extensively uses the Laravel Actions package to structure its business logic, promoting code reuse across different parts of the application:

1. **Unified Business Logic**: Actions encapsulate core functionalities, allowing the same logic to be used in multiple contexts without duplication.
2. **Versatile Usage**: A single Action can serve as a controller endpoint, a command line operation, a queued job, or a simple function call, promoting consistency across different interfaces.
3. **Admin Panel Integration**: Actions seamlessly integrate with Filament resources, allowing the same business logic to be used in both the admin panel and other parts of the application.
4. **API Consistency**: The same Actions used in the admin panel can be easily exposed as API endpoints, ensuring consistency between admin operations and API functionality.
5. **Reduced Duplication**: Instead of implementing the same logic in controllers, jobs, and commands separately, Actions allow for a single implementation that can be reused across these contexts.
6. **Simplified Testing**: By centralizing logic in Actions, unit tests can focus on these Actions, effectively covering multiple use cases with a single set of tests.
7. **Scalability**: As the application grows, new features can be added as discrete Actions, easily integrable into existing workflows without affecting other parts of the codebase.
8. **Maintenance Benefits**: When business logic needs to be updated, changes can be made in one place (the Action) and automatically propagate to all areas where the Action is used.

This approach to using Actions has significantly improved our ability to maintain a consistent codebase across the Filament admin panel and our API, which is crucial for our mobile app integration. It has streamlined our development process, reduced potential for errors from duplicated code, and made our application more modular and easier to extend.

## Core Components

1. **Platform Abstraction Layer**: Unified booking interface across different restaurant management systems (CoverManager, Restoo)
2. **Availability Sync Engine**: Automated prime/non-prime management using bulk calendar APIs with smart override logic
3. **Auto-Approval Engine**: Intelligent booking processing based on party size, venue integration, and business rules
4. **Earnings Engine**: Multi-stakeholder revenue calculation and distribution system with real-time processing
5. **Customer Attribution System**: Maintains customer-concierge relationships across bookings for loyalty and repeat business
6. **QR Discovery Network**: Location-based booking generation through strategically placed QR codes
7. **[Booking Calculation System](./docs/booking_calculations.md)**: Complex revenue sharing algorithms supporting venues, concierges, partners, and referrals
8. **Notification Engine**: Multi-channel communication (SMS, email, push) with automated and manual triggers
9. **Analytics & Reporting**: Real-time performance metrics for all stakeholders with currency conversion support

## Venue Management

The PRIMA platform provides robust tools for managing venues (soon to be refactored from restaurants to venues). This system allows for detailed control over various aspects of venue operations within the platform.

### Key Features of Venue Management

1. **Booking Hours Management**:
    - Set and manage regular operating hours
    - Define prime and non-prime time slots
    - Implement seasonal or special event hours

2. **Table Availability**:
    - Set total table count for the venue
    - Manage table availability for different time slots

3. **Fee Structure Management**:
    - Set booking fees for prime time slots
    - Define bounty fees for non-prime bookings
    - Implement pricing based on special events

4. **Venue Admin Management**:
    - Create and manage venue admin accounts
    - Audit logs for admin actions

5. **Integration with Booking System**:
    - Real-time updates of table availability
    - Automatic application of appropriate fees based on booking time
    - Notifications for venue admins about new bookings

## Referral System

The PRIMA platform incorporates a multi-level referral system that incentivizes growth and rewards key stakeholders.

### Partner Referrals

Partners can refer both venues and concierges to the platform:

1. **Venue Referrals**:
    - Partners earn a percentage of each booking made at venues they've referred
    - This percentage is taken from the total booking fee, not from the platform's earnings

2. **Concierge Referrals**:
    - Partners earn a percentage of each booking made by concierges they've referred
    - This percentage is taken from the total booking fee, not from the platform's earnings

### Concierge Referrals

Concierges can refer other concierges, creating a two-level referral structure:

1. **Level 1 Referrals**:
    - A concierge earns a percentage of the total booking fee from bookings made by concierges they directly referred
    - Typically a higher percentage than Level 2 referrals

2. **Level 2 Referrals**:
    - A concierge also earns a smaller percentage from bookings made by concierges referred by their Level 1 referrals
    - This creates an incentive for concierges to not only refer others but also support their success

### Referral Calculation Process

1. **Identify Referral Relationships**:
    - For each booking, check if the venue or concierge was referred by a partner
    - For concierge bookings, check for Level 1 and Level 2 referral relationships

2. **Calculate Referral Earnings**:
    - Apply the appropriate percentage to the total booking fee for each applicable referral
    - For concierge referrals, calculate both Level 1 and Level 2 earnings if applicable

3. **Record Referral Earnings**:
    - Create earning records for each referral payment
    - Update total earnings for partners and referring concierges

4. **Adjust Platform Earnings**:
    - The platform's earnings are what remains after all other percentages (restaurant, concierge, partner, and referral) have been distributed

## Getting Started

To set up the PRIMA platform locally, follow these steps:

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed on your development machine:

- **PHP**: Version 8.3 or higher
- **Composer**: Dependency manager for PHP
- **Node.js and npm**: For front-end dependencies
- **PostgreSQL**: Version 17 or higher

### Installation Steps

1. **Clone the Repository**:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/andruu/concierge
    cd concierge
    ```

2. **Install PHP Dependencies**:
   Use Composer to install the necessary PHP packages:

    ```bash
    composer install
    ```

3. **Install Front-End Dependencies**:
   Install the required Node.js packages using npm:

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

4. **Set Up Environment Variables**:
   Create a `.env` file by copying the example file:

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

   Then, update the `.env` file with your local environment settings, such as database credentials.

5. **Generate Application Key**:
   Laravel requires an application key, which can be generated with:

    ```bash
    php artisan key:generate
    ```

6. **Run Database Migrations**:
   Set up your database structure by running the migrations:

    ```bash
    php artisan migrate
    ```

7. **Seed the Database** *(optional but recommended)*:
   Seed your database with initial data:

    ```bash
    php artisan db:seed
    ```

8. **Cache Blade Icons**:
   Cache the Blade icons for faster loading:

    ```bash
    php artisan icons:cache
    ```

9. **Compile Front-End Assets**:
   Compile your front-end assets using Laravel Mix:

    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

10. **Serve the Application**:
   Start the Laravel development server:

    ```bash
    php artisan serve
    ```

   The application should now be accessible at `http://localhost:8000`.

11. **Access the Admin Panel**:
    Once the application is running, you can access the admin panel by navigating to `http://localhost:8000/admin`.

### Additional Setup

- **Queue Workers**: PRIMA requires background job processing for SMS, notifications, and platform sync:

    ```bash
    php artisan queue:work
    ```

- **Horizon** (Optional): For advanced queue management and monitoring:

    ```bash
    php artisan horizon:watch
    ```

- **External Dependencies**: Configure external services in your `.env`:
    - Stripe (for payments)
    - SMS provider (Twilio/similar)
    - Platform APIs (CoverManager, Restoo)

- **CoverManager Sync**: To enable automated availability synchronization:

    ```bash
    # Sync all CoverManager venues for next 7 days
    php artisan app:sync-covermanager-availability --days=7
    
    # Sync specific venue
    php artisan app:sync-covermanager-availability --venue-id=123 --days=7
    ```

Now you are ready to start developing and testing the PRIMA platform locally.

## Development & Testing Commands

### Risk Scoring Testing

The platform includes comprehensive risk scoring for fraud detection. Use these commands to test and validate the risk scoring system:

```bash
# Test risk scoring with enhanced visual output and analysis
php artisan app:test-risk-scoring
# Features: Visual risk level icons (🟢 LOW, 🟡 MEDIUM, 🔴 HIGH), detailed breakdown tables,
# risk level distribution statistics, and comprehensive analysis

# Show current risk scoring thresholds with visual indicators
php artisan app:test-risk-scoring --thresholds
# Features: Color-coded risk level icons in the thresholds table

# Test risk scoring on recent CONFIRMED bookings
php artisan app:test-recent-bookings --days=7 --limit=10

# Create test bookings with various risk levels (for development/testing)
php artisan test:create-risk-bookings
# Creates sample bookings with different risk profiles to test the scoring system
```

### VIP Session & Token Commands

For testing VIP functionality and API access:

```bash
# Create VIP session tokens for testing
php artisan vip:create-session-token MIAMI2024

# Search for VIP codes by concierge name, hotel, or email
php artisan vip:create-session-token SEARCH --search="John Doe"

# List all VIP codes
php artisan vip:create-session-token LIST --list

# Create user tokens for API testing
php artisan user:create-token user@example.com --name="test-token" --expires=48
```

Commit message:

chore: genericize brand references (PRIMA → Advisor Engine)

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/173698585?s=100&v=4" alt="Advisor Engine" width="100">
</p>

# Advisor Engine Platform

## Overview

**Advisor Engine** (Platform for Restaurant Intermediation and Management Application) is a comprehensive restaurant reservation ecosystem that transforms how venues monetize their inventory while creating sustainable income streams for concierges. Unlike traditional booking platforms, the platform addresses three critical business challenges: revenue loss from third-party reservation trading, operational inefficiency from manual booking processes, and untapped revenue during non-prime hours.

The platform creates multiple revenue streams through prime-time reservation sales, automated small-party bookings, location-based QR discovery, and relationship-driven repeat business - generating sustainable income for all stakeholders while reducing operational overhead. By facilitating prime-time reservation sales through a trusted concierge network and optimizing non-prime bookings, The platform creates a win-win-win situation for restaurants, concierges, and diners.

## Table of Contents

- [Advisor Engine Platform](#advisor-engine-platform)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Problem Statement](#problem-statement)
  - [Our Solution](#our-solution)
  - [Key Features](#key-features)
  - [How It Works](#how-it-works)
  - [Benefits](#benefits)
  - [Technology Stack](#technology-stack)
  - [Architecture](#architecture)
    - [Action Pattern and Code Reuse](#action-pattern-and-code-reuse)
  - [Core Components](#core-components)
  - [Venue Management](#venue-management)
    - [Key Features of Venue Management](#key-features-of-venue-management)
  - [Referral System](#referral-system)
    - [Partner Referrals](#partner-referrals)
    - [Concierge Referrals](#concierge-referrals)
    - [Referral Calculation Process](#referral-calculation-process)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation Steps](#installation-steps)
  - [Additional Setup](#additional-setup)
- [Development & Testing Commands](#development--testing-commands)
  - [Risk Scoring Testing](#risk-scoring-testing)
  - [VIP Session & Token Commands](#vip-session--token-commands)

## Problem Statement

The restaurant industry faces significant revenue loss due to:

- Third-party reservation trading
- No-shows for prime-time reservations
- Underutilized capacity during non-prime hours

## Our Solution

Advisor Engine revolutionizes restaurant reservation management by:

- Allowing in-demand restaurants to monetize prime-time reservations
- Increasing bookings for non-prime reservations
- Providing a trusted network of concierges to manage and fulfill reservations

## Key Features

### **Automated Revenue Optimization**
- **Smart Auto-Approval**: Small bookings (≤7 guests) automatically approve when restaurants have platform integration
- **Business Impact**: Eliminates manual processing costs, reduces booking abandonment, and captures time-sensitive reservations

### **Restaurant System Integration**
- **Platform Connections**: Direct integration with restaurant management systems (CoverManager, Restoo)
- **Smart Availability Sync**: Automated prime/non-prime management based on real-time restaurant availability
- **Business Impact**: Eliminates double-entry, reduces errors, provides real-time inventory, and streamlines operations

### **Location-Based Discovery Network**
- **QR Concierge Program**: QR codes placed at hotels and high-traffic locations enable instant booking access
- **Business Impact**: Creates new customer acquisition channels, generates passive income for property partners

### **Relationship-Driven Business Model**
- **Customer Attribution**: System maintains customer-concierge relationships across all future bookings
- **Business Impact**: Builds customer loyalty, increases lifetime value, creates predictable income streams

### **Comprehensive Revenue Management**
- Dual booking system for prime and non-prime reservations
- Sophisticated earnings calculation and distribution system
- Multi-stakeholder revenue sharing (venues, concierges, partners)
- Real-time analytics and reporting

## How It Works

1. **Reservation Booking**:
    - Concierges book reservations through the Advisor Engine hub
    - Prime-time slots are available for a fee
    - Non-prime slots are offered free of charge

2. **Restaurant Notification**:
    - Restaurants receive instant notifications for new bookings
    - Reservations can be automatically added to the restaurant's management system

3. **Analytics and Tracking**:
    - Live analytics provided for both restaurants and concierges
    - Track reservations, earnings, and other key metrics in real-time

## Benefits

- **For Restaurants**:
  - Maximize revenue from prime-time slots
  - Increase bookings during non-prime hours
  - Reduce no-shows and last-minute cancellations

- **For Concierges**:
  - Earn extra income by facilitating reservations
  - Access to exclusive prime-time slots at popular restaurants

- **For Diners**:
  - Enjoy favorite restaurants at preferred times
  - Reliable reservation system through trusted concierges

## Technology Stack

- **PHP 8.3+** - Modern PHP with performance optimizations
- **Laravel 11** - Full-stack web application framework
- **Filament 3** - Admin panel and form builder
- **Livewire 3** - Real-time UI components
- **Laravel Sanctum** - API authentication for mobile apps
- **Laravel Actions** (lorisleiva/laravel-actions) - Business logic encapsulation
- **Spatie Packages** - Permissions, activity logging, data objects
- **TailwindCSS 3** - Utility-first CSS framework
- **PostgreSQL 17** - Primary database with advanced features
- **Redis** - Caching and session storage
- **Queue Workers** - Background job processing

## Architecture

Advisor Engine follows a modern, modular architecture leveraging Laravel's robust features and additional packages to ensure clean, maintainable, and reusable code:

- **MVC Pattern**: Laravel's Model-View-Controller architecture for clear separation of concerns
- **Multi-Platform Integration Layer**: Unified interface for different restaurant management systems
- **Action Pattern**: Laravel Actions package for encapsulating business logic into versatile, reusable classes
- **Event-Driven Architecture**: Laravel's event system for booking lifecycle and earnings calculations
- **API-First Design**: RESTful APIs supporting mobile applications and third-party integrations
- **Queue-Based Processing**: Background jobs for SMS, notifications, and platform synchronization
- **Multi-Currency Support**: Built-in currency conversion and regional pricing
- **Admin Panel**: Filament 3 for powerful, customizable administrative interface

### Action Pattern and Code Reuse

Advisor Engine extensively uses the Laravel Actions package to structure its business logic, promoting code reuse across different parts of the application:

1. **Unified Business Logic**: Actions encapsulate core functionalities, allowing the same logic to be used in multiple contexts without duplication.
2. **Versatile Usage**: A single Action can serve as a controller endpoint, a command line operation, a queued job, or a simple function call, promoting consistency across different interfaces.
3. **Admin Panel Integration**: Actions seamlessly integrate with Filament resources, allowing the same business logic to be used in both the admin panel and other parts of the application.
4. **API Consistency**: The same Actions used in the admin panel can be easily exposed as API endpoints, ensuring consistency between admin operations and API functionality.
5. **Reduced Duplication**: Instead of implementing the same logic in controllers, jobs, and commands separately, Actions allow for a single implementation that can be reused across these contexts.
6. **Simplified Testing**: By centralizing logic in Actions, unit tests can focus on these Actions, effectively covering multiple use cases with a single set of tests.
7. **Scalability**: As the application grows, new features can be added as discrete Actions, easily integrable into existing workflows without affecting other parts of the codebase.
8. **Maintenance Benefits**: When business logic needs to be updated, changes can be made in one place (the Action) and automatically propagate to all areas where the Action is used.

This approach to using Actions has significantly improved our ability to maintain a consistent codebase across the Filament admin panel and our API, which is crucial for our mobile app integration. It has streamlined our development process, reduced potential for errors from duplicated code, and made our application more modular and easier to extend.

## Core Components

1. **Platform Abstraction Layer**: Unified booking interface across different restaurant management systems (CoverManager, Restoo)
2. **Availability Sync Engine**: Automated prime/non-prime management using bulk calendar APIs with smart override logic
3. **Auto-Approval Engine**: Intelligent booking processing based on party size, venue integration, and business rules
4. **Earnings Engine**: Multi-stakeholder revenue calculation and distribution system with real-time processing
5. **Customer Attribution System**: Maintains customer-concierge relationships across bookings for loyalty and repeat business
6. **QR Discovery Network**: Location-based booking generation through strategically placed QR codes
7. **[Booking Calculation System](./docs/booking_calculations.md)**: Complex revenue sharing algorithms supporting venues, concierges, partners, and referrals
8. **Notification Engine**: Multi-channel communication (SMS, email, push) with automated and manual triggers
9. **Analytics & Reporting**: Real-time performance metrics for all stakeholders with currency conversion support

## Venue Management

The Advisor Engine platform provides robust tools for managing venues (soon to be refactored from restaurants to venues). This system allows for detailed control over various aspects of venue operations within the platform.

### Key Features of Venue Management

1. **Booking Hours Management**:
    - Set and manage regular operating hours
    - Define prime and non-prime time slots
    - Implement seasonal or special event hours

2. **Table Availability**:
    - Set total table count for the venue
    - Manage table availability for different time slots

3. **Fee Structure Management**:
    - Set booking fees for prime time slots
    - Define bounty fees for non-prime bookings
    - Implement pricing based on special events

4. **Venue Admin Management**:
    - Create and manage venue admin accounts
    - Audit logs for admin actions

5. **Integration with Booking System**:
    - Real-time updates of table availability
    - Automatic application of appropriate fees based on booking time
    - Notifications for venue admins about new bookings

## Referral System

The Advisor Engine platform incorporates a multi-level referral system that incentivizes growth and rewards key stakeholders.

### Partner Referrals

Partners can refer both venues and concierges to the platform:

1. **Venue Referrals**:
    - Partners earn a percentage of each booking made at venues they've referred
    - This percentage is taken from the total booking fee, not from the platform's earnings

2. **Concierge Referrals**:
    - Partners earn a percentage of each booking made by concierges they've referred
    - This percentage is taken from the total booking fee, not from the platform's earnings

### Concierge Referrals

Concierges can refer other concierges, creating a two-level referral structure:

1. **Level 1 Referrals**:
    - A concierge earns a percentage of the total booking fee from bookings made by concierges they directly referred
    - Typically a higher percentage than Level 2 referrals

2. **Level 2 Referrals**:
    - A concierge also earns a smaller percentage from bookings made by concierges referred by their Level 1 referrals
    - This creates an incentive for concierges to not only refer others but also support their success

### Referral Calculation Process

1. **Identify Referral Relationships**:
    - For each booking, check if the venue or concierge was referred by a partner
    - For concierge bookings, check for Level 1 and Level 2 referral relationships

2. **Calculate Referral Earnings**:
    - Apply the appropriate percentage to the total booking fee for each applicable referral
    - For concierge referrals, calculate both Level 1 and Level 2 earnings if applicable

3. **Record Referral Earnings**:
    - Create earning records for each referral payment
    - Update total earnings for partners and referring concierges

4. **Adjust Platform Earnings**:
    - The platform's earnings are what remains after all other percentages (restaurant, concierge, partner, and referral) have been distributed

## Getting Started

To set up the Advisor Engine platform locally, follow these steps:

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed on your development machine:

- **PHP**: Version 8.3 or higher
- **Composer**: Dependency manager for PHP
- **Node.js and npm**: For front-end dependencies
- **PostgreSQL**: Version 17 or higher

### Installation Steps

1. **Clone the Repository**:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/andruu/concierge
    cd concierge
    ```

2. **Install PHP Dependencies**:
   Use Composer to install the necessary PHP packages:

    ```bash
    composer install
    ```

3. **Install Front-End Dependencies**:
   Install the required Node.js packages using npm:

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

4. **Set Up Environment Variables**:
   Create a `.env` file by copying the example file:

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

   Then, update the `.env` file with your local environment settings, such as database credentials.

5. **Generate Application Key**:
   Laravel requires an application key, which can be generated with:

    ```bash
    php artisan key:generate
    ```

6. **Run Database Migrations**:
   Set up your database structure by running the migrations:

    ```bash
    php artisan migrate
    ```

7. **Seed the Database** *(optional but recommended)*:
   Seed your database with initial data:

    ```bash
    php artisan db:seed
    ```

8. **Cache Blade Icons**:
   Cache the Blade icons for faster loading:

    ```bash
    php artisan icons:cache
    ```

9. **Compile Front-End Assets**:
   Compile your front-end assets using Laravel Mix:

    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

10. **Serve the Application**:
   Start the Laravel development server:

    ```bash
    php artisan serve
    ```

   The application should now be accessible at `http://localhost:8000`.

11. **Access the Admin Panel**:
    Once the application is running, you can access the admin panel by navigating to `http://localhost:8000/admin`.

### Additional Setup

- **Queue Workers**: Advisor Engine requires background job processing for SMS, notifications, and platform sync:

    ```bash
    php artisan queue:work
    ```

- **Horizon** (Optional): For advanced queue management and monitoring:

    ```bash
    php artisan horizon:watch
    ```

- **External Dependencies**: Configure external services in your `.env`:
    - Stripe (for payments)
    - SMS provider (Twilio/similar)
    - Platform APIs (CoverManager, Restoo)

- **CoverManager Sync**: To enable automated availability synchronization:

    ```bash
    # Sync all CoverManager venues for next 7 days
    php artisan app:sync-covermanager-availability --days=7
    
    # Sync specific venue
    php artisan app:sync-covermanager-availability --venue-id=123 --days=7
    ```

Now you are ready to start developing and testing the Advisor Engine platform locally.

## Development & Testing Commands

### Risk Scoring Testing

The platform includes comprehensive risk scoring for fraud detection. Use these commands to test and validate the risk scoring system:

```bash
# Test risk scoring with enhanced visual output and analysis
php artisan app:test-risk-scoring
# Features: Visual risk level icons (🟢 LOW, 🟡 MEDIUM, 🔴 HIGH), detailed breakdown tables,
# risk level distribution statistics, and comprehensive analysis

# Show current risk scoring thresholds with visual indicators
php artisan app:test-risk-scoring --thresholds
# Features: Color-coded risk level icons in the thresholds table

# Test risk scoring on recent CONFIRMED bookings
php artisan app:test-recent-bookings --days=7 --limit=10

# Create test bookings with various risk levels (for development/testing)
php artisan test:create-risk-bookings
# Creates sample bookings with different risk profiles to test the scoring system
```

### VIP Session & Token Commands

For testing VIP functionality and API access:

```bash
# Create VIP session tokens for testing
php artisan vip:create-session-token MIAMI2024

# Search for VIP codes by concierge name, hotel, or email
php artisan vip:create-session-token SEARCH --search="John Doe"

# List all VIP codes
php artisan vip:create-session-token LIST --list

# Create user tokens for API testing
php artisan user:create-token user@example.com --name="test-token" --expires=48
```
